docs/en/docs/advanced/templates.md, before:

# Templates

You can use any template engine you want with **FastAPI**.

A common election is Jinja2, the same one used by Flask and other tools.

There are utilities to configure it easily that you can use directly in your **FastAPI** application (provided by Starlette).

## Install dependencies

Install `jinja2`:

<div class="termy">

```console
$ pip install jinja2

---> 100%
```

</div>

If you need to also serve static files (as in this example), install `aiofiles`:

<div class="termy">

```console
$ pip install aiofiles

---> 100%
```

</div>

## Using `Jinja2Templates`

* Import `Jinja2Templates`.
* Create a `templates` object that you can re-use later.
* Declare a `Request` parameter in the *path operation* that will return a template.
* Use the `templates` you created to render and return a `TemplateResponse`, passing the `request` as one of the key-value pairs in the Jinja2 "context".

```Python hl_lines="3  10  14 15"
{!../../../docs_src/templates/tutorial001.py!}
```

!!! note
    Notice that you have to pass the `request` as part of the key-value pairs in the context for Jinja2. So, you also have to declare it in your *path operation*.

!!! note "Technical Details"
    You could also use `from starlette.templating import Jinja2Templates`.

    **FastAPI** provides the same `starlette.templating` as `fastapi.templating` just as a convenience for you, the developer. But most of the available responses come directly from Starlette. The same with `Request` and `StaticFiles`.

## Writing templates

Then you can write a template at `templates/item.html` with:

```jinja hl_lines="7"
{!../../../docs_src/templates/templates/item.html!}
```

It will show the `id` taken from the "context" `dict` you passed:

```Python
{"request": request, "id": id}
```

## Templates and static files

And you can also use `url_for()` inside of the template, and use it, for example, with the `StaticFiles` you mounted.

```jinja hl_lines="4"
{!../../../docs_src/templates/templates/item.html!}
```

In this example, it would link to a CSS file at `static/styles.css` with:

```CSS hl_lines="4"
{!../../../docs_src/templates/static/styles.css!}
```

And because you are using `StaticFiles`, that CSS file would be served automatically by your **FastAPI** application at the URL `/static/styles.css`.

## More details

For more details, including how to test templates, check <a href="https://www.starlette.io/templates/" class="external-link" target="_blank">Starlette's docs on templates</a>.

Commit message:

📝 Add HTML media type to template docs (#1690)
Co-authored-by: Sebastián Ramírez <tiangolo@gmail.com>

docs/en/docs/advanced/templates.md, after:

# Templates

You can use any template engine you want with **FastAPI**.

A common election is Jinja2, the same one used by Flask and other tools.

There are utilities to configure it easily that you can use directly in your **FastAPI** application (provided by Starlette).

## Install dependencies

Install `jinja2`:

<div class="termy">

```console
$ pip install jinja2

---> 100%
```

</div>

If you need to also serve static files (as in this example), install `aiofiles`:

<div class="termy">

```console
$ pip install aiofiles

---> 100%
```

</div>

## Using `Jinja2Templates`

* Import `Jinja2Templates`.
* Create a `templates` object that you can re-use later.
* Declare a `Request` parameter in the *path operation* that will return a template.
* Use the `templates` you created to render and return a `TemplateResponse`, passing the `request` as one of the key-value pairs in the Jinja2 "context".

```Python hl_lines="4  11  15 16"
{!../../../docs_src/templates/tutorial001.py!}
```

!!! note
    Notice that you have to pass the `request` as part of the key-value pairs in the context for Jinja2. So, you also have to declare it in your *path operation*.

!!! tip
    By declaring `response_class=HTMLResponse` the docs UI will be able to know that the response will be HTML.

!!! note "Technical Details"
    You could also use `from starlette.templating import Jinja2Templates`.

    **FastAPI** provides the same `starlette.templating` as `fastapi.templating` just as a convenience for you, the developer. But most of the available responses come directly from Starlette. The same with `Request` and `StaticFiles`.

## Writing templates

Then you can write a template at `templates/item.html` with:

```jinja hl_lines="7"
{!../../../docs_src/templates/templates/item.html!}
```

It will show the `id` taken from the "context" `dict` you passed:

```Python
{"request": request, "id": id}
```

## Templates and static files

And you can also use `url_for()` inside of the template, and use it, for example, with the `StaticFiles` you mounted.

```jinja hl_lines="4"
{!../../../docs_src/templates/templates/item.html!}
```

In this example, it would link to a CSS file at `static/styles.css` with:

```CSS hl_lines="4"
{!../../../docs_src/templates/static/styles.css!}
```

And because you are using `StaticFiles`, that CSS file would be served automatically by your **FastAPI** application at the URL `/static/styles.css`.

## More details

For more details, including how to test templates, check <a href="https://www.starlette.io/templates/" class="external-link" target="_blank">Starlette's docs on templates</a>.
