docs/en/docs/help-fastapi.md, before:

# Help FastAPI - Get Help

Do you like **FastAPI**?

Would you like to help FastAPI, other users, and the author?

Or would you like to get help with **FastAPI**?

There are very simple ways to help (several involve just one or two clicks).

And there are several ways to get help too.

## Star **FastAPI** in GitHub

You can "star" FastAPI in GitHub (clicking the star button at the top right): <a href="https://github.com/tiangolo/fastapi" class="external-link" target="_blank">https://github.com/tiangolo/fastapi</a>.

By adding a star, other users will be able to find it more easily and see that it has been already useful for others.

## Watch the GitHub repository for releases

You can "watch" FastAPI in GitHub (clicking the "watch" button at the top right): <a href="https://github.com/tiangolo/fastapi" class="external-link" target="_blank">https://github.com/tiangolo/fastapi</a>.

There you can select "Releases only".

Doing it, you will receive notifications (in your email) whenever there's a new release (a new version) of **FastAPI** with bug fixes and new features.

## Join the chat

<a href="https://gitter.im/tiangolo/fastapi?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge" target="_blank">
    <img src="https://badges.gitter.im/tiangolo/fastapi.svg" alt="Join the chat at https://gitter.im/tiangolo/fastapi">
</a>

Join the chat on Gitter: <a href="https://gitter.im/tiangolo/fastapi" class="external-link" target="_blank">https://gitter.im/tiangolo/fastapi</a>.

There you can ask quick questions, help others, share ideas, etc.

## Connect with the author

You can connect with <a href="https://tiangolo.com" class="external-link" target="_blank">me (Sebastián Ramírez / `tiangolo`)</a>, the author.

You can:

* <a href="https://github.com/tiangolo" class="external-link" target="_blank">Follow me on **GitHub**</a>.
    * See other Open Source projects I have created that could help you.
    * Follow me to see when I create a new Open Source project.
* <a href="https://twitter.com/tiangolo" class="external-link" target="_blank">Follow me on **Twitter**</a>.
    * Tell me how you use FastAPI (I love to hear that).
    * Ask questions.
* <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/tiangolo/" class="external-link" target="_blank">Connect with me on **Linkedin**</a>.
    * Talk to me.
    * Endorse me or recommend me :)
* <a href="https://medium.com/@tiangolo" class="external-link" target="_blank">Read what I write (or follow me) on **Medium**</a>.
    * Read other ideas, articles and tools I have created.
    * Follow me to see when I publish something new.

## Tweet about **FastAPI**

<a href="https://twitter.com/compose/tweet?text=I'm loving FastAPI because... https://github.com/tiangolo/fastapi cc @tiangolo" class="external-link" target="_blank">Tweet about **FastAPI**</a> and let me and others know why you like it.

## Let me know how are you using **FastAPI**

I love to hear about how **FastAPI** is being used, what have you liked in it, in which project/company are you using it, etc.

You can let me know:

* <a href="https://twitter.com/compose/tweet?text=Hey @tiangolo, I'm using FastAPI at..." class="external-link" target="_blank">On **Twitter**</a>.
* <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/tiangolo/" class="external-link" target="_blank">On **Linkedin**</a>.
* <a href="https://medium.com/@tiangolo" class="external-link" target="_blank">On **Medium**</a>.

## Vote for FastAPI

* <a href="https://www.slant.co/options/34241/~fastapi-review" class="external-link" target="_blank">Vote for **FastAPI** in Slant</a>.

## Help others with issues in GitHub

You can see <a href="https://github.com/tiangolo/fastapi/issues" class="external-link" target="_blank">existing issues</a> and try and help others.

## Watch the GitHub repository

You can "watch" FastAPI in GitHub (clicking the "watch" button at the top right): <a href="https://github.com/tiangolo/fastapi" class="external-link" target="_blank">https://github.com/tiangolo/fastapi</a>.

If you select "Watching" instead of "Releases only", you will receive notifications when someone creates a new issue.

Then you can try and help them solving those issues.

## Create issues

You can <a href="https://github.com/tiangolo/fastapi/issues/new/choose" class="external-link" target="_blank">create a new issue</a> in the GitHub repository, for example to:

* Report a bug/issue.
* Suggest a new feature.
* Ask a question.

## Create a Pull Request

You can <a href="https://github.com/tiangolo/fastapi" class="external-link" target="_blank">create a Pull Request</a>, for example:

* To fix a typo you found on the documentation.
* To propose new documentation sections.
* To fix an existing issue/bug.
* To add a new feature.

---

Thanks!

Commit message:

📝 Add links to GitHub sponsors 💸 (#1425)
* 📝 Add links to GitHub sponsors

* ✏ Update link to sponsors

docs/en/docs/help-fastapi.md, after:

# Help FastAPI - Get Help

Do you like **FastAPI**?

Would you like to help FastAPI, other users, and the author?

Or would you like to get help with **FastAPI**?

There are very simple ways to help (several involve just one or two clicks).

And there are several ways to get help too.

## Star **FastAPI** in GitHub

You can "star" FastAPI in GitHub (clicking the star button at the top right): <a href="https://github.com/tiangolo/fastapi" class="external-link" target="_blank">https://github.com/tiangolo/fastapi</a>.

By adding a star, other users will be able to find it more easily and see that it has been already useful for others.

## Watch the GitHub repository for releases

You can "watch" FastAPI in GitHub (clicking the "watch" button at the top right): <a href="https://github.com/tiangolo/fastapi" class="external-link" target="_blank">https://github.com/tiangolo/fastapi</a>.

There you can select "Releases only".

Doing it, you will receive notifications (in your email) whenever there's a new release (a new version) of **FastAPI** with bug fixes and new features.

## Join the chat

<a href="https://gitter.im/tiangolo/fastapi?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge" target="_blank">
    <img src="https://badges.gitter.im/tiangolo/fastapi.svg" alt="Join the chat at https://gitter.im/tiangolo/fastapi">
</a>

Join the chat on Gitter: <a href="https://gitter.im/tiangolo/fastapi" class="external-link" target="_blank">https://gitter.im/tiangolo/fastapi</a>.

There you can ask quick questions, help others, share ideas, etc.

## Connect with the author

You can connect with <a href="https://tiangolo.com" class="external-link" target="_blank">me (Sebastián Ramírez / `tiangolo`)</a>, the author.

You can:

* <a href="https://github.com/tiangolo" class="external-link" target="_blank">Follow me on **GitHub**</a>.
    * See other Open Source projects I have created that could help you.
    * Follow me to see when I create a new Open Source project.
* <a href="https://twitter.com/tiangolo" class="external-link" target="_blank">Follow me on **Twitter**</a>.
    * Tell me how you use FastAPI (I love to hear that).
    * Ask questions.
* <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/tiangolo/" class="external-link" target="_blank">Connect with me on **Linkedin**</a>.
    * Talk to me.
    * Endorse me or recommend me :)
* <a href="https://medium.com/@tiangolo" class="external-link" target="_blank">Read what I write (or follow me) on **Medium**</a>.
    * Read other ideas, articles and tools I have created.
    * Follow me to see when I publish something new.

## Tweet about **FastAPI**

<a href="https://twitter.com/compose/tweet?text=I'm loving FastAPI because... https://github.com/tiangolo/fastapi cc @tiangolo" class="external-link" target="_blank">Tweet about **FastAPI**</a> and let me and others know why you like it.

## Let me know how are you using **FastAPI**

I love to hear about how **FastAPI** is being used, what have you liked in it, in which project/company are you using it, etc.

You can let me know:

* <a href="https://twitter.com/compose/tweet?text=Hey @tiangolo, I'm using FastAPI at..." class="external-link" target="_blank">On **Twitter**</a>.
* <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/tiangolo/" class="external-link" target="_blank">On **Linkedin**</a>.
* <a href="https://medium.com/@tiangolo" class="external-link" target="_blank">On **Medium**</a>.

## Vote for FastAPI

* <a href="https://www.slant.co/options/34241/~fastapi-review" class="external-link" target="_blank">Vote for **FastAPI** in Slant</a>.

## Help others with issues in GitHub

You can see <a href="https://github.com/tiangolo/fastapi/issues" class="external-link" target="_blank">existing issues</a> and try and help others.

## Watch the GitHub repository

You can "watch" FastAPI in GitHub (clicking the "watch" button at the top right): <a href="https://github.com/tiangolo/fastapi" class="external-link" target="_blank">https://github.com/tiangolo/fastapi</a>.

If you select "Watching" instead of "Releases only", you will receive notifications when someone creates a new issue.

Then you can try and help them solving those issues.

## Create issues

You can <a href="https://github.com/tiangolo/fastapi/issues/new/choose" class="external-link" target="_blank">create a new issue</a> in the GitHub repository, for example to:

* Report a bug/issue.
* Suggest a new feature.
* Ask a question.

## Create a Pull Request

You can <a href="https://github.com/tiangolo/fastapi" class="external-link" target="_blank">create a Pull Request</a>, for example:

* To fix a typo you found on the documentation.
* To propose new documentation sections.
* To fix an existing issue/bug.
* To add a new feature.

## Sponsor the author

You can also financially support the author (me) through <a href="https://github.com/sponsors/tiangolo" class="external-link" target="_blank">GitHub sponsors</a>.

There you could buy me a coffee ☕️ to say thanks 😄.

---

Thanks!
