docs/advanced/additional-status-codes.md, before:

By default, **FastAPI** will return the responses using Starlette's `JSONResponse`, putting the content you return from your *path operation* inside of that `JSONResponse`.

It will use the default status code or the one you set in your *path operation*.

## Additional status codes

If you want to return additional status codes apart from the main one, you can do that by returning a `Response` directly, like a `JSONResponse`, and set the additional status code directly.

For example, let's say that you want to have a *path operation* that allows to update items, and returns HTTP status codes of 200 "OK" when successful.

But you also want it to accept new items. And when the items didn't exist before, it creates them, and returns an HTTP status code of 201 "Created".

To achieve that, import `JSONResponse`, and return your content there directly, setting the `status_code` that you want:

```Python hl_lines="2 20"
{!./src/additional_status_codes/tutorial001.py!}
```

!!! warning
    When you return a `Response` directly, like in the example above, it will be returned directly.

    It won't be serialized with a model, etc.
    
    Make sure it has the data you want it to have, and that the values are valid JSON (if you are using `JSONResponse`).

## OpenAPI and API docs

If you return additional status codes and responses directly, they won't be included in the OpenAPI schema (the API docs), because FastAPI doesn't have a way to know before hand what you are going to return.

But you can document that in your code, using: [Additional Responses](additional-responses.md){.internal-link target=_blank}.

Commit message:

:sparkles: Re-export utils from Starlette (#1064)
* :sparkles: Re-export main features used from Starlette to simplify developer's code

* :recycle: Refactor Starlette exports

* :recycle: Refactor tutorial examples to use re-exported utils from Starlette

* :memo: Add examples for all middlewares

* :memo: Add new docs for middlewares

* :memo: Add examples for custom responses

* :memo: Extend docs for custom responses

* :memo: Update docs and add notes explaining re-exports from Starlette everywhere

* :bento: Update screenshot for HTTP status

* :wrench: Update MkDocs config with new content

* :recycle: Refactor tests to use re-exported utils from Starlette

* :sparkles: Re-export WebSocketDisconnect from Starlette for tests

* :white_check_mark: Add extra tests for extra re-exported middleware

* :white_check_mark: Add tests for re-exported responses from Starlette

* :sparkles: Add docs about mounting WSGI apps

* :heavy_plus_sign: Add Flask as a dependency to test WSGIMiddleware

* :white_check_mark: Test WSGIMiddleware example

docs/advanced/additional-status-codes.md, after:

By default, **FastAPI** will return the responses using a `JSONResponse`, putting the content you return from your *path operation* inside of that `JSONResponse`.

It will use the default status code or the one you set in your *path operation*.

## Additional status codes

If you want to return additional status codes apart from the main one, you can do that by returning a `Response` directly, like a `JSONResponse`, and set the additional status code directly.

For example, let's say that you want to have a *path operation* that allows to update items, and returns HTTP status codes of 200 "OK" when successful.

But you also want it to accept new items. And when the items didn't exist before, it creates them, and returns an HTTP status code of 201 "Created".

To achieve that, import `JSONResponse`, and return your content there directly, setting the `status_code` that you want:

```Python hl_lines="2  19"
{!./src/additional_status_codes/tutorial001.py!}
```

!!! warning
    When you return a `Response` directly, like in the example above, it will be returned directly.

    It won't be serialized with a model, etc.
    
    Make sure it has the data you want it to have, and that the values are valid JSON (if you are using `JSONResponse`).

!!! note "Technical Details"
    You could also use `from starlette.responses import JSONResponse`.

    **FastAPI** provides the same `starlette.responses` as `fastapi.responses` just as a convenience for you, the developer. But most of the available responses come directly from Starlette. The same with `status`.

## OpenAPI and API docs

If you return additional status codes and responses directly, they won't be included in the OpenAPI schema (the API docs), because FastAPI doesn't have a way to know beforehand what you are going to return.

But you can document that in your code, using: [Additional Responses](additional-responses.md){.internal-link target=_blank}.
