docs/advanced/response-cookies.md, before:

## Use a `Response` parameter

You can declare a parameter of type `Response` in your *path operation function*.

And then you can set headers in that *temporal* response object.

```Python hl_lines="2 8 9"
{!./src/response_cookies/tutorial002.py!}
```

And then you can return any object you need, as you normally would (a `dict`, a database model, etc).

And if you declared a `response_model`, it will still be used to filter and convert the object you returned.

**FastAPI** will use that *temporal* response to extract the cookies (also headers and status code), and will put them in the final response that contains the value you returned, filtered by any `response_model`.

You can also declare the `Response` parameter in dependencies, and set cookies (and headers) in them.

## Return a `Response` directly

You can also create cookies when returning a `Response` directly in your code.

To do that, you can create a response as described in [Return a Response Directly](response-directly.md){.internal-link target=_blank}.

Then set Cookies in it, and then return it:

```Python hl_lines="10 11 12"
{!./src/response_cookies/tutorial001.py!}
```

!!! tip
    Have in mind that if you return a response directly instead of using the `Response` parameter, FastAPI will return it directly.

    So, you will have to make sure your data is of the correct type. E.g. it is compatible with JSON, if you are returning a `JSONResponse`.

    And also that you are not sending any data that should have been filtered by a `response_model`.

### More info

To see all the available parameters and options, check the <a href="https://www.starlette.io/responses/#set-cookie" class="external-link" target="_blank">documentation in Starlette</a>.

Commit message:

:sparkles: Re-export utils from Starlette (#1064)
* :sparkles: Re-export main features used from Starlette to simplify developer's code

* :recycle: Refactor Starlette exports

* :recycle: Refactor tutorial examples to use re-exported utils from Starlette

* :memo: Add examples for all middlewares

* :memo: Add new docs for middlewares

* :memo: Add examples for custom responses

* :memo: Extend docs for custom responses

* :memo: Update docs and add notes explaining re-exports from Starlette everywhere

* :bento: Update screenshot for HTTP status

* :wrench: Update MkDocs config with new content

* :recycle: Refactor tests to use re-exported utils from Starlette

* :sparkles: Re-export WebSocketDisconnect from Starlette for tests

* :white_check_mark: Add extra tests for extra re-exported middleware

* :white_check_mark: Add tests for re-exported responses from Starlette

* :sparkles: Add docs about mounting WSGI apps

* :heavy_plus_sign: Add Flask as a dependency to test WSGIMiddleware

* :white_check_mark: Test WSGIMiddleware example

docs/advanced/response-cookies.md, after:

## Use a `Response` parameter

You can declare a parameter of type `Response` in your *path operation function*.

And then you can set cookies in that *temporal* response object.

```Python hl_lines="1  8 9"
{!./src/response_cookies/tutorial002.py!}
```

And then you can return any object you need, as you normally would (a `dict`, a database model, etc).

And if you declared a `response_model`, it will still be used to filter and convert the object you returned.

**FastAPI** will use that *temporal* response to extract the cookies (also headers and status code), and will put them in the final response that contains the value you returned, filtered by any `response_model`.

You can also declare the `Response` parameter in dependencies, and set cookies (and headers) in them.

## Return a `Response` directly

You can also create cookies when returning a `Response` directly in your code.

To do that, you can create a response as described in [Return a Response Directly](response-directly.md){.internal-link target=_blank}.

Then set Cookies in it, and then return it:

```Python hl_lines="10 11 12"
{!./src/response_cookies/tutorial001.py!}
```

!!! tip
    Have in mind that if you return a response directly instead of using the `Response` parameter, FastAPI will return it directly.

    So, you will have to make sure your data is of the correct type. E.g. it is compatible with JSON, if you are returning a `JSONResponse`.

    And also that you are not sending any data that should have been filtered by a `response_model`.

### More info

!!! note "Technical Details"
    You could also use `from starlette.responses import Response` or `from starlette.responses import JSONResponse`.

    **FastAPI** provides the same `starlette.responses` as `fastapi.responses` just as a convenience for you, the developer. But most of the available responses come directly from Starlette.

    And as the `Response` can be used frequently to set headers and cookies, **FastAPI** also provides it at `fastapi.Response`.

To see all the available parameters and options, check the <a href="https://www.starlette.io/responses/#set-cookie" class="external-link" target="_blank">documentation in Starlette</a>.
