docs/advanced/response-headers.md, before:

## Use a `Response` parameter

You can declare a parameter of type `Response` in your *path operation function* (as you can do for cookies).

And then you can set headers in that *temporal* response object.

```Python hl_lines="2 8 9"
{!./src/response_headers/tutorial002.py!}
```

And then you can return any object you need, as you normally would (a `dict`, a database model, etc).

And if you declared a `response_model`, it will still be used to filter and convert the object you returned.

**FastAPI** will use that *temporal* response to extract the headers (also cookies and status code), and will put them in the final response that contains the value you returned, filtered by any `response_model`.

You can also declare the `Response` parameter in dependencies, and set headers (and cookies) in them.

## Return a `Response` directly

You can also add headers when you return a `Response` directly.

Create a response as described in [Return a Response Directly](response-directly.md){.internal-link target=_blank} and pass the headers as an additional parameter:

```Python hl_lines="10 11 12"
{!./src/response_headers/tutorial001.py!}
```

## Custom Headers

Have in mind that custom proprietary headers can be added <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers" class="external-link" target="_blank">using the 'X-' prefix</a>.

But if you have custom headers that you want a client in a browser to be able to see, you need to add them to your CORS configurations (read more in [CORS (Cross-Origin Resource Sharing)](../tutorial/cors.md){.internal-link target=_blank}), using the parameter `expose_headers` documented in <a href="https://www.starlette.io/middleware/#corsmiddleware" class="external-link" target="_blank">Starlette's CORS docs</a>.

Commit message:

:sparkles: Re-export utils from Starlette (#1064)
* :sparkles: Re-export main features used from Starlette to simplify developer's code

* :recycle: Refactor Starlette exports

* :recycle: Refactor tutorial examples to use re-exported utils from Starlette

* :memo: Add examples for all middlewares

* :memo: Add new docs for middlewares

* :memo: Add examples for custom responses

* :memo: Extend docs for custom responses

* :memo: Update docs and add notes explaining re-exports from Starlette everywhere

* :bento: Update screenshot for HTTP status

* :wrench: Update MkDocs config with new content

* :recycle: Refactor tests to use re-exported utils from Starlette

* :sparkles: Re-export WebSocketDisconnect from Starlette for tests

* :white_check_mark: Add extra tests for extra re-exported middleware

* :white_check_mark: Add tests for re-exported responses from Starlette

* :sparkles: Add docs about mounting WSGI apps

* :heavy_plus_sign: Add Flask as a dependency to test WSGIMiddleware

* :white_check_mark: Test WSGIMiddleware example

docs/advanced/response-headers.md, after:

## Use a `Response` parameter

You can declare a parameter of type `Response` in your *path operation function* (as you can do for cookies).

And then you can set headers in that *temporal* response object.

```Python hl_lines="1  7 8"
{!./src/response_headers/tutorial002.py!}
```

And then you can return any object you need, as you normally would (a `dict`, a database model, etc).

And if you declared a `response_model`, it will still be used to filter and convert the object you returned.

**FastAPI** will use that *temporal* response to extract the headers (also cookies and status code), and will put them in the final response that contains the value you returned, filtered by any `response_model`.

You can also declare the `Response` parameter in dependencies, and set headers (and cookies) in them.

## Return a `Response` directly

You can also add headers when you return a `Response` directly.

Create a response as described in [Return a Response Directly](response-directly.md){.internal-link target=_blank} and pass the headers as an additional parameter:

```Python hl_lines="10 11 12"
{!./src/response_headers/tutorial001.py!}
```

!!! note "Technical Details"
    You could also use `from starlette.responses import Response` or `from starlette.responses import JSONResponse`.

    **FastAPI** provides the same `starlette.responses` as `fastapi.responses` just as a convenience for you, the developer. But most of the available responses come directly from Starlette.

    And as the `Response` can be used frequently to set headers and cookies, **FastAPI** also provides it at `fastapi.Response`.

## Custom Headers

Have in mind that custom proprietary headers can be added <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers" class="external-link" target="_blank">using the 'X-' prefix</a>.

But if you have custom headers that you want a client in a browser to be able to see, you need to add them to your CORS configurations (read more in [CORS (Cross-Origin Resource Sharing)](../tutorial/cors.md){.internal-link target=_blank}), using the parameter `expose_headers` documented in <a href="https://www.starlette.io/middleware/#corsmiddleware" class="external-link" target="_blank">Starlette's CORS docs</a>.
