docs/tutorial/bigger-applications.md, before:

If you are building an application or a web API, it's rarely the case that you can put everything on a single file.

**FastAPI** provides a convenience tool to structure your application while keeping all the flexibility.

!!! info
    If you come from Flask, this would be the equivalent of Flask's Blueprints.

## An example file structure

Let's say you have a file structure like this:

```
.
├── app
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── main.py
│   └── routers
│       ├── __init__.py
│       ├── items.py
│       └── users.py
```

!!! tip
    There are two `__init__.py` files: one in each directory or subdirectory.
    
    This is what allows importing code from one file into another.

    For example, in `app/main.py` you could have a line like:
    
    ```
    from app.routers import items
    ```


* The `app` directory contains everything.
* This `app` directory has an empty file `app/__init__.py`.
    * So, the `app` directory is a "Python package" (a collection of "Python modules").
* The `app` directory also has a `app/main.py` file.
    * As it is inside a Python package directory (because there's a file `__init__.py`), it is a "module" of that package: `app.main`.
* There's a subdirectory `app/routers/`.
* The subdirectory `app/routers` also has an empty file `__init__.py`.
    * So, it is a "Python subpackage".
* The file `app/routers/items.py` is beside the `app/routers/__init__.py`.
    * So, it's a submodule: `app.routers.items`.
* The file `app/routers/users.py` is beside the `app/routers/__init__.py`.
    * So, it's a submodule: `app.routers.users`.


## `APIRouter`

Let's say the file dedicated to handling just users is the submodule at `/app/routers/users.py`.

You want to have the *path operations* related to your users separated from the rest of the code, to keep it organized.

But it's still part of the same **FastAPI** application/web API (it's part of the same "Python Package").

You can create the *path operations* for that module using `APIRouter`.


### Import `APIRouter`

You import it and create an "instance" the same way you would with the class `FastAPI`:

```Python hl_lines="1 3"
{!./src/bigger_applications/app/routers/users.py!}
```


### Path operations with `APIRouter`

And then you use it to declare your *path operations*.

Use it the same way you would use the `FastAPI` class:

```Python hl_lines="6 11 16"
{!./src/bigger_applications/app/routers/users.py!}
```

You can think of `APIRouter` as a "mini `FastAPI`" class.

All the same options are supported.

All the same parameters, responses, dependencies, tags, etc.

!!! tip
    In this example, the variable is called `router`, but you can name it however you want.

We are going to include this `APIrouter` in the main `FastAPI` app, but first, let's add another `APIRouter`.


## Another module with `APIRouter`

Let's say you also have the endpoints dedicated to handling "Items" from your application in the module at `app/routers/items.py`.

You have path operations for:

* `/items/`
* `/items/{item_id}`

It's all the same structure as with `app/routers/users.py`.

But let's say that this time we are more lazy.

And we don't want to have to explicitly type `/items/` and `tags=["items"]` in every *path operation* (we will be able to do it later):

```Python hl_lines="6 11"
{!./src/bigger_applications/app/routers/items.py!}
```

### Add some custom `tags` and `responses`

We are not adding the prefix `/items/` nor the `tags=["items"]` to add them later.

But we can add custom `tags` and `responses` that will be applied to a specific *path operation*:

```Python hl_lines="18 19"
{!./src/bigger_applications/app/routers/items.py!}
```

## The main `FastAPI`

Now, let's see the module at `app/main.py`.

Here's where you import and use the class `FastAPI`.

This will be the main file in your application that ties everything together.

### Import `FastAPI`

You import and create a `FastAPI` class as normally:

```Python hl_lines="1 5"
{!./src/bigger_applications/app/main.py!}
```

### Import the `APIRouter`

But this time we are not adding *path operations* directly with the `FastAPI` `app`.

We import the other submodules that have `APIRouter`s:

```Python hl_lines="3"
{!./src/bigger_applications/app/main.py!}
```

As the file `app/routers/items.py` is part of the same Python package, we can import it using "dot notation".


### How the importing works

The section:

```Python
from .routers import items, users
```

Means:

* Starting in the same package that this module (the file `app/main.py`) lives in (the directory `app/`)...
* look for the subpackage `routers` (the directory at `app/routers/`)...
* and from it, import the submodule `items` (the file at `app/routers/items.py`) and `users` (the file at `app/routers/users.py`)...

The module `items` will have a variable `router` (`items.router`). This is the same one we created in the file `app/routers/items.py`. It's an `APIRouter`. The same for the module `users`.

We could also import them like:

```Python
from app.routers import items, users
```

!!! info
    The first version is a "relative import".

    The second version is an "absolute import".

    To learn more about Python Packages and Modules, read <a href="https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/modules.html" target="_blank">the official Python documentation about Modules</a>.


### Avoid name collisions

We are importing the submodule `items` directly, instead of importing just its variable `router`.

This is because we also have another variable named `router` in the submodule `users`.

If we had imported one after the other, like:

```Python
from .routers.items import router
from .routers.users import router
```

The `router` from `users` would overwrite the one from `items` and we wouldn't be able to use them at the same time.

So, to be able to use both of them in the same file, we import the submodules directly:

```Python hl_lines="3"
{!./src/bigger_applications/app/main.py!}
```


### Include an `APIRouter`

Now, let's include the `router` from the submodule `users`:

```Python hl_lines="7"
{!./src/bigger_applications/app/main.py!}
```

!!! info
    `users.router` contains the `APIRouter` inside of the file `app/routers/users.py`.

With `app.include_router()` we can add an `APIRouter` to the main `FastAPI` application.

It will include all the routes from that router as part of it.

!!! note "Technical Details"
    It will actually internally create a *path operation* for each *path operation* that was declared in the `APIRouter`.

    So, behind the scenes, it will actually work as if everything was the same single app.


!!! check
    You don't have to worry about performance when including routers.
    
    This will take microseconds and will only happen at startup.
    
    So it won't affect performance.


### Include an `APIRouter` with a `prefix`, `tags`, and `responses`

Now, let's include the router from the `items` submodule.

But, remember that we were lazy and didn't add `/items/` nor `tags` to all the *path operations*?

We can add a prefix to all the path operations using the parameter `prefix` of `app.include_router()`.

As the path of each path operation has to start with `/`, like in:

```Python hl_lines="1"
@router.get("/{item_id}")
async def read_item(item_id: str):
    ...
```

...the prefix must not include a final `/`.

So, the prefix in this case would be `/items`.

We can also add a list of `tags` that will be applied to all the *path operations* included in this router.

And we can add predefined `responses` that will be included in all the *path operations* too.

```Python hl_lines="8 9 10 11 12 13"
{!./src/bigger_applications/app/main.py!}
```

The end result is that the item paths are now:

* `/items/`
* `/items/{item_id}`

...as we intended.

They will be marked with a list of tags that contain a single string `"items"`.

The *path operation* that declared a `"custom"` tag will have both tags, `items` and `custom`.

These "tags" are especially useful for the automatic interactive documentation systems (using OpenAPI).

And all of them will include the the predefined `responses`.

The *path operation* that declared a custom `403` response will have both the predefined responses (`404`) and the `403` declared in it directly.

!!! check
    The `prefix`, `tags`, and `responses` parameters are (as in many other cases) just a feature from **FastAPI** to help you avoid code duplication.


!!! tip
    You could also add path operations directly, for example with: `@app.get(...)`.
    
    Apart from `app.include_router()`, in the same **FastAPI** app.
    
    It would still work the same.


!!! info "Very Technical Details"
    **Note**: this is a very technical detail that you probably can **just skip**.

    ---

    The `APIRouter`s are not "mounted", they are not isolated from the rest of the application.

    This is because we want to include their path operations in the OpenAPI schema and the user interfaces.

    As we cannot just isolate them and "mount" them independently of the rest, the path operations are "cloned" (re-created), not included directly.


## Check the automatic API docs

Now, run `uvicorn`, using the module `app.main` and the variable `app`:

```bash
uvicorn app.main:app --reload
```

And open the docs at <a href="http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs" target="_blank">http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs</a>.

You will see the automatic API docs, including the paths from all the submodules, using the correct paths (and prefixes) and the correct tags:

<img src="/img/tutorial/bigger-applications/image01.png">

Commit message:

:sparkles: Add parameter dependencies to path operation decorators and include_router (#235)
* :sparkles: Implement dependencies in decorator and .include_router

* :memo: Add docs for parameter dependencies

* :white_check_mark: Add tests for dependencies parameter

* :fire: Remove debugging prints in tests

* :memo: Update release notes

docs/tutorial/bigger-applications.md, after:

If you are building an application or a web API, it's rarely the case that you can put everything on a single file.

**FastAPI** provides a convenience tool to structure your application while keeping all the flexibility.

!!! info
    If you come from Flask, this would be the equivalent of Flask's Blueprints.

## An example file structure

Let's say you have a file structure like this:

```
.
├── app
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── main.py
│   └── routers
│       ├── __init__.py
│       ├── items.py
│       └── users.py
```

!!! tip
    There are two `__init__.py` files: one in each directory or subdirectory.

    This is what allows importing code from one file into another.

    For example, in `app/main.py` you could have a line like:

    ```
    from app.routers import items
    ```

* The `app` directory contains everything.
* This `app` directory has an empty file `app/__init__.py`.
    * So, the `app` directory is a "Python package" (a collection of "Python modules").
* The `app` directory also has a `app/main.py` file.
    * As it is inside a Python package directory (because there's a file `__init__.py`), it is a "module" of that package: `app.main`.
* There's a subdirectory `app/routers/`.
* The subdirectory `app/routers` also has an empty file `__init__.py`.
    * So, it is a "Python subpackage".
* The file `app/routers/items.py` is beside the `app/routers/__init__.py`.
    * So, it's a submodule: `app.routers.items`.
* The file `app/routers/users.py` is beside the `app/routers/__init__.py`.
    * So, it's a submodule: `app.routers.users`.


## `APIRouter`

Let's say the file dedicated to handling just users is the submodule at `/app/routers/users.py`.

You want to have the *path operations* related to your users separated from the rest of the code, to keep it organized.

But it's still part of the same **FastAPI** application/web API (it's part of the same "Python Package").

You can create the *path operations* for that module using `APIRouter`.


### Import `APIRouter`

You import it and create an "instance" the same way you would with the class `FastAPI`:

```Python hl_lines="1 3"
{!./src/bigger_applications/app/routers/users.py!}
```


### Path operations with `APIRouter`

And then you use it to declare your *path operations*.

Use it the same way you would use the `FastAPI` class:

```Python hl_lines="6 11 16"
{!./src/bigger_applications/app/routers/users.py!}
```

You can think of `APIRouter` as a "mini `FastAPI`" class.

All the same options are supported.

All the same parameters, responses, dependencies, tags, etc.

!!! tip
    In this example, the variable is called `router`, but you can name it however you want.

We are going to include this `APIrouter` in the main `FastAPI` app, but first, let's add another `APIRouter`.


## Another module with `APIRouter`

Let's say you also have the endpoints dedicated to handling "Items" from your application in the module at `app/routers/items.py`.

You have path operations for:

* `/items/`
* `/items/{item_id}`

It's all the same structure as with `app/routers/users.py`.

But let's say that this time we are more lazy.

And we don't want to have to explicitly type `/items/` and `tags=["items"]` in every *path operation* (we will be able to do it later):

```Python hl_lines="6 11"
{!./src/bigger_applications/app/routers/items.py!}
```

### Add some custom `tags`, `responses`, and `dependencies`

We are not adding the prefix `/items/` nor the `tags=["items"]` to add them later.

But we can add custom `tags` and `responses` that will be applied to a specific *path operation*:

```Python hl_lines="18 19"
{!./src/bigger_applications/app/routers/items.py!}
```

## The main `FastAPI`

Now, let's see the module at `app/main.py`.

Here's where you import and use the class `FastAPI`.

This will be the main file in your application that ties everything together.

### Import `FastAPI`

You import and create a `FastAPI` class as normally:

```Python hl_lines="1 5"
{!./src/bigger_applications/app/main.py!}
```

### Import the `APIRouter`

But this time we are not adding *path operations* directly with the `FastAPI` `app`.

We import the other submodules that have `APIRouter`s:

```Python hl_lines="3"
{!./src/bigger_applications/app/main.py!}
```

As the file `app/routers/items.py` is part of the same Python package, we can import it using "dot notation".


### How the importing works

The section:

```Python
from .routers import items, users
```

Means:

* Starting in the same package that this module (the file `app/main.py`) lives in (the directory `app/`)...
* look for the subpackage `routers` (the directory at `app/routers/`)...
* and from it, import the submodule `items` (the file at `app/routers/items.py`) and `users` (the file at `app/routers/users.py`)...

The module `items` will have a variable `router` (`items.router`). This is the same one we created in the file `app/routers/items.py`. It's an `APIRouter`. The same for the module `users`.

We could also import them like:

```Python
from app.routers import items, users
```

!!! info
    The first version is a "relative import".

    The second version is an "absolute import".

    To learn more about Python Packages and Modules, read <a href="https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/modules.html" target="_blank">the official Python documentation about Modules</a>.


### Avoid name collisions

We are importing the submodule `items` directly, instead of importing just its variable `router`.

This is because we also have another variable named `router` in the submodule `users`.

If we had imported one after the other, like:

```Python
from .routers.items import router
from .routers.users import router
```

The `router` from `users` would overwrite the one from `items` and we wouldn't be able to use them at the same time.

So, to be able to use both of them in the same file, we import the submodules directly:

```Python hl_lines="3"
{!./src/bigger_applications/app/main.py!}
```

### Include an `APIRouter`

Now, let's include the `router` from the submodule `users`:

```Python hl_lines="13"
{!./src/bigger_applications/app/main.py!}
```

!!! info
    `users.router` contains the `APIRouter` inside of the file `app/routers/users.py`.

With `app.include_router()` we can add an `APIRouter` to the main `FastAPI` application.

It will include all the routes from that router as part of it.

!!! note "Technical Details"
    It will actually internally create a *path operation* for each *path operation* that was declared in the `APIRouter`.

    So, behind the scenes, it will actually work as if everything was the same single app.


!!! check
    You don't have to worry about performance when including routers.

    This will take microseconds and will only happen at startup.

    So it won't affect performance.

### Include an `APIRouter` with a `prefix`, `tags`, `responses`, and `dependencies`

Now, let's include the router from the `items` submodule.

But, remember that we were lazy and didn't add `/items/` nor `tags` to all the *path operations*?

We can add a prefix to all the path operations using the parameter `prefix` of `app.include_router()`.

As the path of each path operation has to start with `/`, like in:

```Python hl_lines="1"
@router.get("/{item_id}")
async def read_item(item_id: str):
    ...
```

...the prefix must not include a final `/`.

So, the prefix in this case would be `/items`.

We can also add a list of `tags` that will be applied to all the *path operations* included in this router.

And we can add predefined `responses` that will be included in all the *path operations* too.

And we can add a list of `dependencies` that will be added to all the *path operations* in the router and will be executed/solved for each request made to them.

```Python hl_lines="8 9 10 14 15 16 17 18 19 20"
{!./src/bigger_applications/app/main.py!}
```

The end result is that the item paths are now:

* `/items/`
* `/items/{item_id}`

...as we intended.

* They will be marked with a list of tags that contain a single string `"items"`.
* The *path operation* that declared a `"custom"` tag will have both tags, `items` and `custom`.
    * These "tags" are especially useful for the automatic interactive documentation systems (using OpenAPI).
* All of them will include the predefined `responses`.
* The *path operation* that declared a custom `403` response will have both the predefined responses (`404`) and the `403` declared in it directly.
* All these *path operations* will have the list of `dependencies` evaluated/executed before them.
    * If you also declare dependencies in a specific *path operation*, **they will be executed too**.
    * The router dependencies are executed first, then the <a href="https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/tutorial/dependencies/dependencies-in-decorator/" target="_blank">`dependencies` in the decorator</a>, and then the normal parameter dependencies.
    * You can also add <a href="https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/tutorial/security/oauth2-scopes/" target="_blank">`Security` dependencies with `scopes`</a>.

!!! tip
    Having `dependencies` in a decorator can be used, for example, to require authentication for a whole group of *path operations*. Even if the dependencies are not added individually to each one of them.

!!! check
    The `prefix`, `tags`, `responses` and `dependencies` parameters are (as in many other cases) just a feature from **FastAPI** to help you avoid code duplication.

!!! tip
    You could also add path operations directly, for example with: `@app.get(...)`.

    Apart from `app.include_router()`, in the same **FastAPI** app.

    It would still work the same.

!!! info "Very Technical Details"
    **Note**: this is a very technical detail that you probably can **just skip**.

    ---

    The `APIRouter`s are not "mounted", they are not isolated from the rest of the application.

    This is because we want to include their path operations in the OpenAPI schema and the user interfaces.

    As we cannot just isolate them and "mount" them independently of the rest, the path operations are "cloned" (re-created), not included directly.


## Check the automatic API docs

Now, run `uvicorn`, using the module `app.main` and the variable `app`:

```bash
uvicorn app.main:app --reload
```

And open the docs at <a href="http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs" target="_blank">http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs</a>.

You will see the automatic API docs, including the paths from all the submodules, using the correct paths (and prefixes) and the correct tags:

<img src="/img/tutorial/bigger-applications/image01.png">
