docs/tutorial/path-operation-configuration.md, before:

There are several parameters that you can pass to your path operation decorator to configure it.

!!! warning
    Notice that these parameters are passed directly to the path operation decorator, not to your path operation function.

## Response Status Code

You can define the (HTTP) `status_code` to be used in the response of your path operation.

You can pass directly the `int` code, like `404`.

But if you don't remember what each number code is for, you can use the shortcut constants from `starlette`:

```Python hl_lines="5 18"
{!./src/path_operation_configuration/tutorial001.py!}
```

That status code will be used in the response and will be added to the OpenAPI schema.


## Tags

You can add tags to your path operation, pass the parameter `tags` with a `list` of `str` (commonly just one `str`):

```Python hl_lines="17 22 27"
{!./src/path_operation_configuration/tutorial002.py!}
```

They will be added to the OpenAPI schema and used by the automatic documentation interfaces:

<img src="/img/tutorial/path-operation-configuration/image01.png">

## Summary and description

You can add a `summary` and `description`:

```Python hl_lines="20 21"
{!./src/path_operation_configuration/tutorial003.py!}
```

## Description from docstring

As descriptions tend to be long and cover multiple lines, you can declare the path operation description in the function <abbr title="a multi-line string as the first expression inside a function (not assigned to any variable) used for documentation">docstring</abbr> and **FastAPI** will read it from there.

```Python hl_lines="19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27"
{!./src/path_operation_configuration/tutorial004.py!}
```

It will be used in the interactive docs:

<img src="/img/tutorial/path-operation-configuration/image02.png">

!!! info
    OpenAPI specifies that descriptions can be written in Markdown syntax, but the interactive documentation systems included still don't support it at the time of writing this, although they have it in their plans.

## Response description

You can specify the response description with the parameter `response_description`:

```Python hl_lines="21"
{!./src/path_operation_configuration/tutorial005.py!}
```

!!! info
    Notice that `response_description` refers specifically to the response, the `description` refers to the path operation in general.

!!! info
    OpenAPI specifies that each path operation requires a response description.
    
    So, if you don't provide one, **FastAPI** will automatically generate one of "Successful response".

<img src="/img/tutorial/path-operation-configuration/image03.png">

## Deprecate a path operation

If you need to mark a path operation as <abbr title="obsolete, recommended not to use it">deprecated</abbr>, but without removing it, pass the parameter `deprecated`:


```Python hl_lines="16"
{!./src/path_operation_configuration/tutorial006.py!}
```

It will be clearly marked as deprecated in the interactive docs:

<img src="/img/tutorial/path-operation-configuration/image04.png">

Check how deprecated and non-deprecated path operations look like:

<img src="/img/tutorial/path-operation-configuration/image05.png">

## Recap

You can configure and add metadata for your path operations easily by passing parameters to the path operation decorators.

Commit message:

:sparkles: Upgrade docstring Markdown parsing (#163)
* :sparkles: Upgrade docstring Markdown parsing

* :memo: Update release notes

docs/tutorial/path-operation-configuration.md, after:

There are several parameters that you can pass to your path operation decorator to configure it.

!!! warning
    Notice that these parameters are passed directly to the path operation decorator, not to your path operation function.

## Response Status Code

You can define the (HTTP) `status_code` to be used in the response of your path operation.

You can pass directly the `int` code, like `404`.

But if you don't remember what each number code is for, you can use the shortcut constants from `starlette`:

```Python hl_lines="5 18"
{!./src/path_operation_configuration/tutorial001.py!}
```

That status code will be used in the response and will be added to the OpenAPI schema.


## Tags

You can add tags to your path operation, pass the parameter `tags` with a `list` of `str` (commonly just one `str`):

```Python hl_lines="17 22 27"
{!./src/path_operation_configuration/tutorial002.py!}
```

They will be added to the OpenAPI schema and used by the automatic documentation interfaces:

<img src="/img/tutorial/path-operation-configuration/image01.png">

## Summary and description

You can add a `summary` and `description`:

```Python hl_lines="20 21"
{!./src/path_operation_configuration/tutorial003.py!}
```

## Description from docstring

As descriptions tend to be long and cover multiple lines, you can declare the path operation description in the function <abbr title="a multi-line string as the first expression inside a function (not assigned to any variable) used for documentation">docstring</abbr> and **FastAPI** will read it from there.

You can write <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markdown" target="_blank">Markdown</a> in the docstring, it will be interpreted and displayed correctly (taking into account docstring indentation).

```Python hl_lines="19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27"
{!./src/path_operation_configuration/tutorial004.py!}
```

It will be used in the interactive docs:

<img src="/img/tutorial/path-operation-configuration/image02.png">

## Response description

You can specify the response description with the parameter `response_description`:

```Python hl_lines="21"
{!./src/path_operation_configuration/tutorial005.py!}
```

!!! info
    Notice that `response_description` refers specifically to the response, the `description` refers to the path operation in general.

!!! info
    OpenAPI specifies that each path operation requires a response description.
    
    So, if you don't provide one, **FastAPI** will automatically generate one of "Successful response".

<img src="/img/tutorial/path-operation-configuration/image03.png">

## Deprecate a path operation

If you need to mark a path operation as <abbr title="obsolete, recommended not to use it">deprecated</abbr>, but without removing it, pass the parameter `deprecated`:


```Python hl_lines="16"
{!./src/path_operation_configuration/tutorial006.py!}
```

It will be clearly marked as deprecated in the interactive docs:

<img src="/img/tutorial/path-operation-configuration/image04.png">

Check how deprecated and non-deprecated path operations look like:

<img src="/img/tutorial/path-operation-configuration/image05.png">

## Recap

You can configure and add metadata for your path operations easily by passing parameters to the path operation decorators.
